# **Agile method**
>You **choose** and implement the most suitable agile software development method for your software project.
>
>**Choose**: You are aware of the most popular agile methods and their underlying agile principles. Your choice of a method is motivated and based on well-defined selection criteria and context analyses.
>
>[^1]

## **Table of Contents**
- [What is Agile?](#what-is-agile)
- [Why we use Agile.](#why-we-use-agile)
- [How we use Agile.](#how-we-use-agile)
    - [What is Scrum?](#what-is-scrum)
    - [How we implement Scrum.](#how-we-implement-scrum)
- [Sources](#sources)

# **What is Agile?**
The Agile methodology is a project management approach that involves breaking the project into phases and emphasizes continuous collaboration and improvement. Teams follow a cycle of planning, executing, and evaluating.

Whereas the traditional "waterfall" approach has one discipline contribute to the project, then "throw it over the wall" to the next contributor, agile calls for collaborative cross-functional teams. Open communication, collaboration, adaptation, and trust amongst team members are at the heart of agile. Although the project lead or product owner typically prioritizes the work to be delivered, the team takes the lead on deciding how the work will get done, self-organizing around granular tasks and assignments.

Agile isn't defined by a set of ceremonies or specific development techniques. Rather, agile is a group of methodologies that demonstrate a commitment to tight feedback cycles and continuous improvement.

The original [Agile Manifesto](http://agilemanifesto.org/) didn't prescribe two-week iterations or an ideal team size. It simply laid out a set of core values that put people first. The way you and your team live those values today – whether you do scrum by the book, or blend elements of kanban and XP – is entirely up to you.

[^2] [^3]
<br></br>

# **Why we use Agile.**
We chose agile so we can repsond better to changes that are happening or to feedback from customer squickly without derailing. While working in small frequent increments, to plan and ship "just enough" lets us gather feedback on each change and integrate it into future plans at minimal cost

The agile method is about people. As described by the Agile Manifesto, authentic human interactions are more important than rigid processes. Collaborating with customers and teammates is more important than predefined arrangements. And delivering a working solution to the customer's problem is more important than hyper-detailed documentation.

An agile team unites under a shared vision, then brings it to life the way they know is best. We set our own standards for quality, usability, and completeness. Our "definition of done" then informs how fast we will churn the work out.

[^2]
<br></br>

# **How we use Agile.**
We use Scrum as our agile methodology of working. But what is included with Scrum.

## **What is Scrum?**
Scrum is an agile project management framework that emphasizes teamwork, accountability, and iterative progress toward a well-defined goal. It encourages teams to learn through experiences, self-organize while working on a problem, and reflect on their wins and losses to continuously improve. Scrum has a set of meetings, tools, and roles for efficient project delivery, and teams work in short sprints to deliver increments of valuable work in cycles of one month or less.

[^4]

## **How we implement Scrum.**
We implement scrum by tracking our tasks and progress by a Scrum board. For this Project we use the Atlassian Jira Scrum board.
- https://www.atlassian.com/nl/software/jira

## **Examples**


------------------
### **Sources**
[^1]: Canvas. (n.d.). Canvas outcomes. Retrieved october 4, 2023, from https://fhict.instructure.com/courses/13181/outcomes<br>
[^2]: Atlassion. (n.d.). The Agile Coach: Atlassian's no-nonsense guide to agile development. Retrieved october 5, 2023, from https://www.atlassian.com/agile<br>
[^3]: Principles behind the Agile Manifesto. (n.d.). https://agilemanifesto.org. Retrieved September 21, 2023, from https://agilemanifesto.org/principles.html<br>
[^4]: Scrum. (n.d.). Atlassian. Retrieved September 21, 2023, from https://www.atlassian.com/agile/scrum