# Professional
>You act in a professional manner during software development and learning.
>
>**Professional manner:** You develop software as a team effort according to a prescribed software methodology and following team agreements. You are able to track your work progress and communicate your progress with the team.
>
>You actively ask and apply feedback from stakeholders and advise them on the most optimal technical and design (architectural) solutions.
You choose and substantiate solutions for a given problem.

## **Table of Contents**
- [What is professionalism?](#what-is-professionalism)
- [Why professionalism is important.](#why-professionalism-is-important)
- [How we pay attention to professionalism.](#how-we-pay-attention-to-professionalism)
- [Sources](#sources)

# **What is professionalism?**
Professionalism takes many shapes and forms. It's working together with stakeholders, with your team, communicating adequately and formally, accepting and processing feedback, keeping track of your progress as an individual and a group, and much more. All in all, it's everything related to communication about the project, whether that's with your team, with your stakeholders, about wants and needs, or about whether those wants and needs have been achieved.

# **Why professionalism is important.**
Professionalism is the foundation of any project, ensuring everybody gets the treatment they deserve, and people can work together as effectively as possible. As such, it's vital that it's upheld properly from every party involved. Failure to do so can lead to miscommunication, unnecessary disagreements, and many more, as well as much worse consequences.

# **How we pay attention to professionalism.**
As stated before, professionalism is many things. This is equally true within our projects. <br><br>
Within the individual project, professionalism was making an agreement that included basic expectations from the other person we're working with, communicating with our stakeholder extensively about their wants and needs, as well as working in Jira to track what needed to be done for the project, and what has been completed in the process. <br><br>
Similarly, in the group project, Jira was also used, an agreement was also made, and communication with the stakeholders was upheld quite consistently, but there was more to it. <br><br>
As a larger group, roles were created, either formally or informally, to ensure the group can work together well, and communication with higher-ups (teachers) was maintained as well as with the stakeholders at IO to ensure not just fulfillment of our promises to IO, but also a project that our teachers could approve of within the context of education.

---
### **Sources**
[^1]: Canvas. (n.d.). Canvas outcomes. Retrieved october 4th, 2023, from https://fhict.instructure.com/courses/13181/outcomes <br>